**Information Technology Staff Resource Allocation**

Our organization uses information technology to support our vision and
goals. IT enables daily business operations and can be enhanced to allow
for new initiatives or products, improve customer and staff experiences,
and increase efficiency.

We strive for work of the IT team to have the greatest possible positive
impact on our business. This requires communication about the relative
benefits of various projects that involve IT work, transparency about
how IT team resources are being used, coordination around scheduling and
implementation, and agility to adapt plans when business needs change.

To support this intent, we are outlining a new process for allocating IT
team resources to projects prioritized by members of the leadership team
(See \"I. New Projects & Major Enhancements Projects\") along with a
condensed process for small enhancements (See \"II. Minor
Enhancements\"). Section III defines IT maintenance and describes the
process through which it gets addressed, recalling that approximately
50% of the IT team\'s time is spent performing maintenance.

**New Projects & Major Enhancements Process**

Requests for new projects and major enhancements may be generated by any
staff member, but these requests should filter through and be approved
by the staff member\'s representative on the leadership team. Leadership
team members may establish their own processes through which staff
members can submit projects and major enhancement requests for their
consideration. Leadership team members are accountable for any
projects/enhancements that they put forward to the IT team.

New projects require significant investment from business users/staff in
order for the IT Team to implement a solution. Business users should
allow for plenty of time to assist the IT Team in gathering
requirements, scoping the project, testing the implementation, training
users, and developing documentation before the solution is fully
deployed.

A few examples of major projects/enhancements include:

-   Purchasing and implementing most third-party software packages,
    including Zoom, Salesforce, Salesforce add-ons, social media
    integrations, etc.

-   Most integrations between systems

-   New SIS pages, such as new instructor, customer, or student portal
    pages

-   New Drupal websites and new Drupal templates (custom page layouts)

-   Onboarding a team to a software system that is new to them, e.g.
    onboarding a team to Salesforce

The process is as follows:

1.  Each leadership team member should decide the best route for their
    employees to communicate project and enhancement requests to them
    and convey this information to their team.

2.  Once a leadership team member has identified a project that they
    believe should be considered for implementation, they should
    communicate the project/enhancement request to the Operations and
    Student Services Director (hereafter OSS Director). The OSS Director
    will want to understand the following from either the leadership
    team member or an identified point of contact:

    a.  What you seek to accomplish with the project, i.e. the goal of
        the project

    b.  Any potential solutions you have identified, if available

    c.  Who the IT team\'s point of contact will be for working on the
        project (may be different than the leadership team member)

    d.  When the contact (and anyone else on the team who should be
        included) is available to work on it

    e.  Deadlines associated with the project, including internal and
        external deadlines, legal changes, etc.

    f.  The benefit to our business, quantifying when possible

3.  The OSS Director will discuss the item with the Senior IT Manager
    and the item may be moved to minor enhancements (section II) or
    regular maintenance (section III) at this point if the definition of
    either of those categories is met.

4.  On a rolling basis, and if the request remains within the new
    project/major enhancement category, the OSS Director and the Chief
    Operating Officer will consult to determine if the project should be
    scoped and request that the Senior IT Manager scope the project when
    appropriate. At this point, the scoping request will be added to the
    spreadsheet of potential projects.

5.  The Senior IT Manager and relevant members of the IT Team will work
    with the contacts listed in step 2c above to scope the project. This
    process may involve

    a.  At least 1-2 meetings with contacts

    b.  Meetings with additional stakeholders as appropriate

    c.  Documentation of requirements by IT team and confirmation by
        contacts

    d.  IT analysis of project (allow 3 hours minimum; larger for more
        complex projects)

6.  The Senior IT Manager will return an estimated range of hours needed
    to complete the project to the OSS Director and will add that number
    o the spreadsheet. Depending on the project, IT may propose multiple
    solutions and return estimates for each potential solution.

7.  At a leadership team meeting closely following the quarterly
    leadership team meeting, the leadership team will review the status
    of ongoing IT projects.

8.  At this same meeting, the leadership team will review the list of
    potential projects. For each project, the leadership team will have
    access to the proposed value to the organization as well as the
    preliminary scope to assist with their decision. They may be asked
    by the Senior IT Manager and the OSS Director to rank projects or
    select a designated number of high priority projects. The benefits
    of new projects may be evaluated in comparison to the benefits of
    continuing existing projects.

9.  Based on this information about leadership team priorities and any
    guidelines from the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Officer,
    the Senior IT Manager will propose a tentative schedule of IT
    projects for the quarter. The Senior IT Manager will IT team
    availability and skillsets in addition to leadership team
    priorities.

10. The OSS Director, the Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief
    Operating Officer will review the schedule and may work with the
    Senior IT Manager to modify it. The schedule will then be
    communicated to the leadership team for any final input.

**Minor Enhancements**

Minor enhancements involve many of the day-to-day help requests from
individual staff members to the IT Team. Being able to fulfill these
requests quickly and efficiently is one of the major benefits of having
an in-house IT Team.

Minor enhancements are defined as those that

-   Have solutions that are understood by the IT Team without research
    or analysis

-   Are simple enough that they don\'t require a scoping process

-   Generally require 5 or fewer IT hours to complete; work will not
    exceed 10 hours

-   Don\'t interfere with IT Team deadlines for major projects or bug
    fixes

For efficiency\'s sake, minor enhancements do not go to the leadership
team to review or approve. Any staff member can submit a minor
enhancement. The IT Team works directly with individual staff to
understand and try to address the most critical needs of the business.
Leadership team members are encouraged to discuss with The Senior IT
Manager if they have questions about the status of any specific minor
enhancements.

Examples of minor enhancements include:

Reorganizing Drupal menus

Adding a field to Salesforce

-   Very simple data request, e.g. number of instructors in a given
    department, list of all published courses, etc., from Drupal, SIS,
    or Salesforce

-   Adding a column to a report

-   Changing language on a registration receipt

The IT Team prefers that minor enhancements are entered into our
ticketing system so that we can keep track of them more efficiently, but
they can also be requested via email or by talking to a member of the IT
Team.

The IT Team generally spends \~15% of their time working on minor
enhancements. When minor enhancements require more significant effort or
if they interfere with other work, leadership team members may be asked
for input on justification for particular enhancements.

**Maintenance**

The prioritization process outlined above does not apply to maintenance,
which includes bugs as well as training and user support related to
existing software packages and projects, i.e. our SIS or Drupal. The IT
Team typically allocates 50% time to maintenance.

The IT Team manages four types of maintenance as outlined below.

**Corrective**: These are reactive modifications of a software product
performed after delivery to correct discovered problems. These are what
we call \"bug fixes\" and the phrase applies to problems that arise when
software is not behaving as designed (not necessarily when software is
behaving in a way we don\'t prefer). See next section for processes
regarding corrective maintenance.

**Adaptive**: These are modifications of a software product performed
after delivery to keep a software product usable in a changed or
changing environment. This includes required software upgrades,
integration updates, and accessibility updates. Usually, these changes
have deadlines that are external to IT. We upgrade software as needed to
keep it functioning and compliant with applicable policies and laws.

**Perfective**: These are modifications of a software product after
delivery to improve performance or maintainability. This includes code
refactoring to match current standards, changes to improve scalability,
and reduction of technical debt, which is a fancy phrase for correcting
issues that arise when we choose quick solutions rather than the right

solutions. Historically, perfective maintenance has not been
prioritized, but it is an opportunity to reduce bugs and improve
performance in the long term.

**Preventive**: These are modifications of a software product after
delivery to detect and correct latent faults in the software product
before they become effective faults. This is a bug fix for a bug that
hasn\'t happened yet but that we know will happen in future. It can
include things like security updates. We try prioritize these items to
fix them before a problem occurs.

Staff members are usually the most concerned with corrective
maintenance, i.e. bug fixes for problems that they notice when going
about their work. Any TEC staff member can submit a bug to the IT Team
at any time. The process for submitting a bug is outlined here: \<link
to policies\>

Below, the separate severity levels detail examples as well as how the
IT Team will respond. If you have questions regarding what severity your
bug falls into, please don\'t hesitate to contact the Senior IT Manager
with questions.

**Critical**: Critical bugs are those that cause issues that result in
an immediate loss in revenue or inability for customers to access
services. Developers will stop other work and projects to address a
critical bug. Outside of normal business hours, customer-facing staff
can contact the Senior IT Manager by phone to report a critical bug. The
IT Team has a phone tree system allowing the relevant developers to be
contacted as necessary.

Examples of critical bugs: An application is not working such as
students can't complete an online registration or a public-facing
website is down

**Major**: Major bugs are those that need to be fixed in order for:

-   An application is not working such as students can't complete an
    online registration

-   A public facing website is down

Developers complete major bugs during normal business hours and complete
them as soon as possible, usually within 1-3 days.

Examples of major bugs include:

-   All authorizations for SIS, ticketing system, etc.

-   Invoice issues such as combining invoices, fixing payment issues

-   Questions on how to use SIS

**Normal**: Normal bugs are issues that may affect efficiency, but do
not make it impossible to complete necessary functions. In these cases,
a workaround may be in place or work can be delayed.

The IT team completes work on bugs of normal severity during regular
business hours, and work on these bugs is completed in an order that
reflects the total effect on business.

Examples of normal bugs include:

-   Broken links

-   Reports not running as expected

-   Display issues that significantly affect user experience or violate
    brand guidelines

-   Most bugs that 1) do not result in a loss of revenue and 2) aren't
    related

-   to authorizations and payments fall into this category

**Minor**: These items are when you notice something that could be
nicer, but it doesn\'t really need to be completed for students/staff to
do what they need to do. The IT Team completes work on minor bugs when
time permits.

Examples of minor bugs:

-   Issues that do not significantly affect student or staff ability to
    complete ordinary tasks

-   Issues related to display rather than functionality - e.g. column
    widths on tables are out of alignment, font is nonstandard, etc.
